in the previous two videos
we learned how to create an api route
that can handle
both get and post requests
the next step is to understand how to
handle a delete request
a delete request though is slightly
different
in the sense that you need to specify
the id
of the comment you're deleting
so slash api slash comments will handle
both get and post requests
however for a delete request our api
endpoint
will be slash api slash comments
slash comment id
where comment id is a dynamic segment
it can be 1 2 3 or any valid comment id
from our comments array so in this video
let's see how to create a dynamic api
route
which will return a single comment based
on the comment id
we will then use our learnings from this
video
to handle a delete request from the user
interface
in the next video all right
so we need to create an api route that
handles
slash api slash comments slash
comment ide let me tell you
that dynamic api routes work similar to
dynamic
page routes for slash
api comments we need the file
inside the comments folder for the
comment id
dynamic segment we specify the same
within
square brackets so within the comments
folder
within api folder create a new file
within square brackets comment id and
the extension
is dot js
within the file we define a handler
function
so export default function
handler this function
receives request and response as
parameters
what the handler has to do is return a
single comment from the comments array
whose id
is equal to the comment id pass in the
url
so at the top let's import the comments
array
copy and paste it
then in the function body we find the
comment
whose id matches the passed in comment
but how do we get hold of the id from
the request
well this is where the request object
comes into play
from request dot query we can extract
the comment id
const comment id
restructure it from request dot query
we specify comment id because that is
our dynamic segment
in the file name once we have the
comment id
we find the comment from our array so
const comment
is equal to comments dot find
find the comment whose id so comment.id
is equal to parseind
comment id from the url we need to parse
end
since this value is a string
finally we return that as the json
response
so res dot status of 200
dot json and we send back
the comment let's now save the file and
head to the browser
navigate to slash api slash comments
slash one
and we get back just the first comment
slash two
we get back the second comment similarly
slash three and we get back the third
comment
so based on the comment id we pass in
the url
we get back the appropriate data
of course we just have three comments to
work with here
but in a practical application you're
probably going to have
thousands of rows in your database the
logic to fetch the individual record
remains the same right
now that we have a good understanding of
how to create dynamic routes
in the next video let's see how to
handle a delete request
to delete an individual comment from the
comments page
in the browser please leave a like if
you're enjoying the videos
and i'll see you in the next one